---
layout: post
title: "Control flow in Swift"
description: " "
date: 2023-10-11
tags: [programming]
comments: true
share: true
---

Control flow is an essential aspect of any programming language as it allows you to structure the execution of your code based on certain conditions and make decisions. In Swift, there are several control flow statements that enable you to handle different scenarios effectively. In this blog post, we will explore some of the important control flow statements in Swift and how to use them in your code.

## if-else Statement

The `if-else` statement in Swift allows you to perform different actions based on a Boolean condition. Here's the general syntax of an `if-else` statement:

```swift
if condition {
    // code to execute when the condition is true
} else {
    // code to execute when the condition is false
}
```
Consider the following example that checks if a number is even or odd:

```swift
let number = 7

if number % 2 == 0 {
    print("\(number) is even")
} else {
    print("\(number) is odd")
}
```

## switch Statement

The `switch` statement provides a concise way to evaluate multiple conditions and execute different code blocks based on the matched cases. Unlike in some other programming languages, in Swift, the `switch` statement does not fall through to the next case by default.

```swift
let fruit = "apple"

switch fruit {
case "apple":
    print("It's an apple")
case "orange":
    print("It's an orange")
default:
    print("Unknown fruit")
}
```

## for-in Loop

The `for-in` loop is used to iterate over a sequence such as arrays, ranges, or collections for each element. Here's an example that prints the numbers from 1 to 5:

```swift
for number in 1...5 {
    print(number)
}
```

## while Loop

The `while` loop is used to execute a block of code repeatedly as long as a given condition is true. The condition is evaluated before each iteration.

```swift
var counter = 0

while counter < 5 {
    print(counter)
    counter += 1
}
```

## repeat-while Loop

The `repeat-while` loop is similar to the `while` loop, but it evaluates the condition after executing the block of code, ensuring that the code is executed at least once.

```swift
var counter = 0

repeat {
    print(counter)
    counter += 1
} while counter < 5
```

## Conclusion

Control flow statements like `if-else`, `switch`, `for-in`, `while`, and `repeat-while` are powerful tools in Swift that allow you to control the flow and behavior of your code. By understanding how to use these statements correctly, you'll have more control over how your code executes and how it responds to different situations.

Remember to make efficient use of these control flow statements to write clean, organized, and readable code. Happy coding!

**#swift #programming**