---
layout: post
title: "Interoperability of custom operators in Swift with Objective-C"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-23
tags: [import]
comments: true
share: true
---

When working with both Swift and Objective-C in the same project, it's important to consider how custom operators will interact between the two languages. Swift allows you to create custom operators, which can provide syntactic sugar and improve the readability of your code. However, there are a few things to keep in mind when using custom operators in a mixed Swift and Objective-C environment.

Objective-C doesn't have built-in support for custom operators. It treats any unrecognized symbol as a compiler error. This means that if you try to use a custom operator defined in Swift from within Objective-C code, you will encounter a compilation error.

To work around this issue, you can define a wrapper function in Swift that encapsulates the implementation of your custom operator. This wrapper function can be called from Objective-C code, allowing you to achieve interoperability.

```swift
// Define your custom operator in Swift
infix operator •

// Define a wrapper function that encapsulates the implementation
@objc func dotOperator(lhs: NSNumber, rhs: NSNumber) -> NSNumber {
    return NSNumber(value: lhs.floatValue * rhs.floatValue)
}

// Use the wrapper function as the implementation of the custom operator
infix func • (lhs: NSNumber, rhs: NSNumber) -> NSNumber {
    return dotOperator(lhs: lhs, rhs: rhs)
}
```

In the above example, we define a custom operator (`•`) in Swift and also define a wrapper function `dotOperator` that performs the actual calculation. The `•` operator calls the `dotOperator` function, allowing it to be used in Swift code.

To use this custom operator in Objective-C, you can simply call the wrapper function:

```objective-c
#import "YourProjectName-Swift.h"

NSNumber *result = [YourSwiftClass dotOperatorWithLhs:@2 rhs:@3];
```

Here, we import the "YourProjectName-Swift.h" header file, which is automatically generated by Xcode and provides access to Swift code from Objective-C. We then call the wrapper function `dotOperatorWithLhs:rhs:` to use the custom operator.

By using this approach, you can achieve interoperability between custom operators defined in Swift and Objective-C. Remember to be mindful of the limitations of Objective-C when working with custom operators, and use wrapper functions to bridge the gap between the two languages.

#Swift #ObjectiveC