---
layout: post
title: "JSON encoding in Swift"
description: " "
date: 2023-10-24
tags: [json]
comments: true
share: true
---

JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) is a widely used format for data serialization. Swift provides a powerful and convenient way to encode Swift types to JSON format using the `JSONEncoder` class. In this blog post, we will explore how to encode Swift objects to JSON using JSONEncoder.

## Table of Contents
- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Encoding Swift Objects to JSON](#encoding-swift-objects-to-json)
- [Customizing Encoding](#customizing-encoding)
- [Conclusion](#conclusion)

## Introduction

With the `Codable` protocol introduced in Swift 4, encoding and decoding Swift types to and from JSON became much simpler. The `Codable` protocol allows Swift types to be serialized and deserialized to and from various formats, including JSON.

## Encoding Swift Objects to JSON

To encode a Swift object to JSON, we need to implement the `Codable` protocol in the object we want to encode. The `Codable` protocol consists of two other protocols, `Encodable` and `Decodable`.

Here's an example of a `Person` struct that conforms to the `Codable` protocol:

```swift
struct Person: Codable {
    let name: String
    let age: Int
}
```

To encode an instance of `Person` to JSON, we can use the `JSONEncoder` class:

```swift
let person = Person(name: "John Doe", age: 30)
let jsonEncoder = JSONEncoder()

do {
    let jsonData = try jsonEncoder.encode(person)
    let jsonString = String(data: jsonData, encoding: .utf8)
    print(jsonString)
} catch {
    print("Error encoding JSON: \(error)")
}
```

In the above example, we create an instance of `Person` and an instance of `JSONEncoder`. We then use the `encode` method of `JSONEncoder` to encode the `person` object to JSON data. Finally, we convert the JSON data to a string and print it.

## Customizing Encoding

JSONEncoder provides various options for customizing the encoding process. For example, we can set different date encoding strategies, key encoding strategies, and more. We can customize the encoding process by setting the properties of the `JSONEncoder` instance before encoding:

```swift
let person = Person(name: "John Doe", age: 30)
let jsonEncoder = JSONEncoder()

// Customize the encoding process
jsonEncoder.dateEncodingStrategy = .iso8601
jsonEncoder.keyEncodingStrategy = .convertToSnakeCase

do {
    let jsonData = try jsonEncoder.encode(person)
    let jsonString = String(data: jsonData, encoding: .utf8)
    print(jsonString)
} catch {
    print("Error encoding JSON: \(error)")
}
```

In the above example, we set the `dateEncodingStrategy` to `.iso8601` and `keyEncodingStrategy` to `.convertToSnakeCase`. This means that dates will be encoded using the ISO 8601 format and keys will be converted to snake case.

## Conclusion

JSON encoding is an essential part of working with web APIs and data serialization. Swift provides a convenient way to encode Swift objects to JSON using the `Codable` protocol and the `JSONEncoder` class. By customizing the encoding process, we can further tailor the JSON output to our specific requirements.

In this blog post, we explored how to encode Swift objects to JSON using `JSONEncoder` and discussed customizing the encoding process. With this knowledge, you can now confidently encode your Swift objects to JSON and easily integrate with web APIs.

Happy coding!

**#swift #json**